The President:
On behalf of the Obama family
-- Michelle, Malia, Sasha,
Bo and me -- I want to
wish everyone a very
happy Thanksgiving.
For us, like so many of you,
this is a day full of family and
friends; food and football.
It's a day to fight the
overwhelming urge to take a nap
-- at least until after dinner.
But most of all, it's a time
to give thanks for each other,
and for the incredible bounty
we enjoy in this country.
That's especially
important this year.
As a nation, we've just emerged
from a campaign season that was
passionate, noisy, and
vital to our democracy.
But it also required
us to make choices --
and sometimes those choices
led us to focus on what sets us
apart instead of what
ties us together;
on what candidate we support
instead of what country we all
belong to.
Thanksgiving is a chance to
put it all in perspective --
to remember that, despite
our differences, we are,
and always will be,
Americans first and foremost.
Today we give thanks for
blessings that are all too rare
in this world.
The ability to spend time
with the ones we love;
to say what we want; to
worship as we please;
to know that there are brave men
and women defending our freedom
around the globe; and to look
our children in the eye and to
tell them that, here in America,
no dream is too big if they're
willing to work for it.
We're also grateful that this
country has always been home to
Americans who see these
blessings not simply as gifts to
enjoy, but as
opportunities to give back.
Americans who believe we have a
responsibility to look out for
those who are less fortunate --
to pull each other up and move
forward together.
Right now, as we prepare to
gather around our dinner tables,
there are families in the
northeast who don't have
that luxury.
Many of them have lost
everything to Hurricane Sandy --
homes, possessions,
even loved ones.
And it will be a long time
before life gets back to
normal for them.
But in the midst
of so much tragedy,
there are also glimmers of hope.
Over the last few weeks,
we've seen FEMA personnel,
National Guard and first
responders working around the
clock in hard-hit communities.
We've seen hospital workers
using their lunch breaks to
distribute supplies.
Families offering
up extra bedrooms.
The fire department
advertising free hot showers.
Buses full of volunteers coming
from hundreds of miles away.
Neighbors sharing
whatever they have --
food, water, electricity -- and
saying again and again how lucky
they are to have a
roof over their heads.
It would have been easy for
these folks to do nothing --
to worry about themselves and
leave the rest to someone else.
But that's not who we are.
That's not what we do.
As Americans, we are bold,
generous, big-hearted people.
When our brothers and
sisters are in need,
we roll up our sleeves
and get to work --
not for the recognition
or the reward,
but because it's the
right thing to do.
Because there but for
the grace of God go I.
And because here in America,
we rise or fall together,
as one nation and one people.
That's something to
be grateful for --
today and every day.
So to all the Americans doing
your part to make our world a
better place -- it is my
great privilege to serve as
your President.
To all our servicemembers
-- it is my honor to be
your Commander-in-Chief.
And from our family to yours,
happy Thanksgiving, everybody.